Migrate boilerplate to Hardhat. (#11)
nomiclabs/buidler-ts-plugin-boilerplate: MIGRATION.md

# Buidler to Hardhat plugin migration guide

This is a short guide explaining how to turn a Buidler plugin into a Hardhat one.

## Updating its dependencies

### Core

References to the `@nomiclabs/buidler` package should be replaced with the `hardhat` package in your `package.json`, and your `import`s or `require`s.

For example, you would import the `extendEnvironment` function this way:

```typescript
import { extendEnvironment } from "hardhat/config";
```

### Plugins

Similarly, references to buidler plugins should be replaced with their corresponding hardhat plugins.
For example, `@nomiclabs/buidler-ethers` would be `@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers`.

## Adapting your plugin's source code

Replace all types or imported names that include `Buidler` with `Hardhat` in your plugin source code.

For example, the `BuidlerRuntimeEnvironment` should be replaced with the `HardhatRuntimeEnvironment`. We suggest using `hre` instead of `bre` as its variable name.

### Artifacts

The `readArtifact` and `readArtifactSync` functions were moved to the `HardhatRuntimeEnvironment` so you must replace their uses like this:

```js
const tokenArtifact = await hre.artifacts.readArtifact("Token");
```

> The artifact format is now supplemented with build information and debug artifacts in Hardhat which allows you to read things like contract symbols. See the [documentation](https://usehardhat.com/docs/artifacts) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The artifact format is now supplemented with build information and debug artifacts in Hardhat which allows you to read things like contract symbols. See the [documentation](https://hardhat.org/docs/artifacts) for more information.
```

## Updating your plugin's tests

Apart from updating types and names, fixture projects need their `buidler.config.js` renamed to `hardhat.config.js`.

### Changes needed to your test projects' config

> The compiler configuration is now expected in the `solidity` field instead of `solc`. Note that Hardhat projects allow multiple solidity versions in its compilation pipeline. For more information see its [documentation](https://usehardhat.com/docs/compilation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The compiler configuration is now expected in the `solidity` field instead of `solc`. Note that Hardhat projects allow multiple solidity versions in its compilation pipeline. For more information see its [documentation](https://hardhat.org/docs/compilation).
```

                enabled: true,
                runs: 200
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Adapting your type extensions

Hardhat introduced a few changes in how type extensions are created and used. These
are the necessary to update your plugin.

First, you need rename your `src/type-extenstions.d.ts` file to `src/type-extensions.ts`.

Then, you need to add an `import "./type-extensions";` in your `src/index.ts` file, or the main entrypoint to your plugin as defined in your `package.json`.

### Extending Hardhat types

Hardhat types are meant to be imported from `hardhat/types`, but when extending them,
you should import them from the module that declares them.

For example, if you want you use the `HardhatRuntimeEnvironment` type, you should import it with:

```typescript
import { HardhatRuntimeEnvironment } from "hardhat/types";
```

But if you want to extend it, you should import the module that declares it
instead, which is `hardhat/types/runtime`.

```typescript
import "hardhat/types/runtime";

declare module "hardhat/types/runtime" {
  export interface HardhatRuntimeEnvironment {
    newField: number;
  }
}
```

### How type extensions are loaded in Hardhat

> Previously, type extensions were loaded by plugin users by adding references to a plugin-owned `type-extensions.d.ts` in their `tsconfig.json`.

Reviewer: We should mention something about how the config types have been changed.

Reviewer: The names and the `UserConfig` vs `Config`.

Reviewer 2: I added a paragraph in the "Adapting your plugin's source code" section for this.

# Buidler to Hardhat plugin migration guide

> 

Reviewer: This is a short guide explaining how  to turn a Buidler plugin into a Hardhat one.

> ## Plugin source code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adapting your plugin's source code
```

Replace all types or imported names that include `Buidler` with `Hardhat` in your plugin source code.

For example, the `BuidlerRuntimeEnvironment` should be replaced with the `HardhatRuntimeEnvironment`. We suggest using `hre` instead of `bre` as its variable name.

> ## Dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Updating its dependencies
```

### Core

> References to the `@nomiclabs/buidler` package should be replaced with the `hardhat` package.

Reviewer: I'd change this from a list to:

"... the `hardhat` package in your `pacakge.json`, and your `import` or `require`s"

- In your package.json.
- In all your imports or requires.

For example, you would import the `extendEnvironment` function this way:

```typescript
import { extendEnvironment } from "hardhat/config";
```

### Plugins

Similarly, references to buidler plugins should be replaced with their corresponding hardhat plugins.
For example, `@nomiclabs/buidler-ethers` would be `@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers`.

> ## Tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adapting your plugin's tests
```

Apart from updating types and names, fixture projects need their `buidler.config.js` renamed to `hardhat.config.js`.

> ### Hardhat configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Changes needed to your test projects' config files
```

The compiler configuration is now expected in the `solidity` field instead of `solc`. Note that Hardhat projects allow multiple solidity versions in its compilation pipeline. For more information see its [documentation](https://usehardhat.com/compilation).

> If your compiler configuration specifies the optimizer settings, then you'll need to do so like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your compiler configuration specifies the `optimizer` setting, then you'll need to do so like this:
```

```js
module.exports = {
    solidity: {
        version: "0.7.2"
        settings: {
            optimizer: {
                enabled: true,
                runs: 200
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> ## Type extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adapting your type extensions
```

> While you can import all the necessary types from `hardhat/types`, this doesn't work for extending interfaces. For example, you can do something like `import { HardhatRuntimeEnvironment } from "hardhat/types";`, but if you want to extend that interface you need to do something like this:

Reviewer: I think there are multiple missing things, that I probably never explained to you. So here's an alternative version. What do you think?

Hardhat introduced a few changes in how type extensions are created and used. These
are the necessary to update your plugin.

First, you need rename your `src/type-extenstions.d.ts` file to `src/type-extensions.ts`.

Then, you need to add an `import "./type-extensions";` in your `src/index.ts` file.

If your plugin depends on other plugins, you need to remove their `type-extension.d.ts` references
from your `tsconfig.json`. You also need to add a line like this too `src/type-extensions.ts`, 
before any `import` or other statements:

```typescript
/// <reference types="<plugin name>" />
```

Finally, you need to adapt the imports in your `src/type-extensions.ts` file. 

Hardhat types are meant to be imported from `hardhat/types`, but when extending them,
you should import them from the module that declares them. 

For example, if you want you use the `HardhatRuntimeEnvironment` type, you should import it with

```typescript
import { HardhatRuntimeEnvironment } from "hardhat/types";
```

To extend it, you should import the module that declares it, which is `hardhat/types/runtime`.

```typescript
import "hardhat/types/runtime";

declare module "hardhat/types/runtime" {
  export interface HardhatRuntimeEnvironment {
    newField: number;
  }
}
```

Author: Ah, yes. Detailing the cleanup of the old infrastructure should be good.

```typescript
import "hardhat/types/runtime";
import { ExampleHardhatRuntimeEnvironmentField } from "./ExampleHardhatRuntimeEnvironmentField";

declare module "hardhat/types/runtime" {
  // This is an example of an extension to the Hardhat Runtime Environment.
  // This new field will be available in tasks' actions, scripts, and tests.
  export interface HardhatRuntimeEnvironment {
    example: ExampleHardhatRuntimeEnvironmentField;
  }
}
```

Extending a configuration type can be done in a similar fashion:

```typescript
import "hardhat/types/config";

declare module "hardhat/types/config" {
  // This is an example of an extension to one of the Hardhat config values.
  export interface ProjectPaths {
    newPath?: string;
  }
}
```

> ### User side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How type extensions are loaded in Hardhat
```

Previously, type extensions were loaded by plugin users by adding references to a plugin-owned `type-extensions.d.ts` in their `tsconfig.json`.

> Now, they're loaded by plugin users through an annotation in a Typescript module like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, they're loaded by plugin users through an annotation in the user's config like this:
```

```typescript
/// <reference types="<npm package name>" />
```

> This typescript module needs to be added to their `tsconfig.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## README.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adapting your `README.md`
```

> Make sure to update the README to point to the new Hardhat site (https://usehardhat.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to update the README to point to the new Hardhat site (https://usehardhat.com), and that the Typescript Support section has been updated.
```
